AIM - To explore python libraries for deep learning e.g. Theano, TensorFlow etc.

THEORY - Deep learning is a subset of machine learning that focuses on neural networks with many layers (deep networks). 
This approach has been highly successful in fields such as computer vision, natural language processing, and reinforcement learning. 
To facilitate the development of deep learning models, several Python libraries have been developed, among which Theano and TensorFlow are two of the most notable. 
This aims to provide an overview of these libraries, discussing their features, use cases, and the evolution of the deep learning landscape.

1. KERAS
   Keras is an open-source high-level Neural Network library, which is written in Python is capable enough to run on Theano, TensorFlow, or CNTK. 
   It was developed by one of the Google engineers, Francois Chollet. It is made user-friendly, extensible, and modular for facilitating faster experimentation with deep neural networks. 
   It not only supports Convolutional Networks and Recurrent Networks individually but also their combination.

2. TENSORFLOW
   TensorFlow is an open-source machine learning library developed by Google. TensorFlow is used to build and train deep learning models as it facilitates the creation of computational graphs and efficient execution on various hardware platforms.
   TensorFlow can be used to develop models for various tasks, including natural language processing, image recognition, handwriting recognition, and different computational-based simulations such as partial differential equations.

3. THEANO
   Theano is a Python library that allows us to evaluate mathematical operations including multi-dimensional arrays efficiently. It is mostly used in building Deep Learning Projects. 
   Theano works way faster on the Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) rather than on the CPU.Theano also knows how to take structures and convert them into very efficient code that uses numpy and some native libraries. 

4. PYTORCH
   Deep Learning is a branch of Machine Learning where algorithms are written that mimic the functioning of a human brain. The most commonly used libraries in deep learning are Tensorflow and PyTorch.
   Pytorch is an open-source deep learning framework available with a Python and C++ interface. The PyTorch resides inside the torch module. In PyTorch, the data that has to be processed is input in the form of a tensor.The Pytorch is used to process the tensors. 
   Tensors are multidimensional arrays like n-dimensional NumPy array. 

5. OpenCV
   OpenCV, short for Open Source Computer Vision Library, is an open-source computer vision and machine learning software library. Originally developed by Intel, it is now maintained by a community of developers under the OpenCV Foundation.
   OpenCV allows you to perform various operations in the image. Read the Image ,Image Enhacncement ,Object detection,Image Filtering,Draw the Image,Saving the Changed Images

6. NLTK
   NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit) is the go-to API for NLP (Natural Language Processing) with Python. It is a really powerful tool to preprocess text data for further analysis like with ML models for instance. 
   It helps convert text into numbers, which the model can then easily work with. This is the first part of a basic introduction to NLTK for getting your feet wet and assumes some basic knowledge of Python.

7. CAFFE
   Caffe, short for Convolutional Architecture for Fast Feature Embedding, stands out as a deep learning framework that excels in supporting various architectures like CNNs, RCNNs, LSTMs, and fully connected networks. 
   Its GPU support and easy-to-use templates simplify model setup and training, making it particularly popular for tasks such as image classification and segmentation.Data layers in Caffe handle the processing of data into and out of the model. 
   They can also perform preprocessing and transformations such as random cropping, mirroring, scaling, and mean subtraction.

8. DeepLearningKit
   DeeplearningKit is an open-source framework of deep learning which is compatible with multiple operating systems and uses metal for GPU acceleration. 
   This deep learning tool is developed in Swift and can perform low-latency deep learning calculations. It supports Convolutional Neural Networks too. In the future, it can also support other deep learning tools.

9. CNTK
   CNTK also known as Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit, is a free and open-source, commercial-grade toolkit using which users can learn deep learning systems. With the help of this deep learning tool data scientists can create multiple and efficient neural networks for taking decisions, 
   some of the types are Convolutional neural Networks and feed-forward neural networks. Microsoft provides a comprehensive tool in the AI market to help developers build more accurate models and networks.

10. MXNet
   Apache MXnet is an open-source deep learning framework that is used to train and deploy neural networks in the process of creating large-scale artificial intelligence applications. 
   Businesses create these applications with the help of this deep learning tool, to take critical decisions by training the networks with large amounts of past data so that the pattern finding will be easy for the model. 
   It supports multiple programming languages to create models and also contained pre-trained models as well.

11. LightBGM
   Light Gradient Boosting Machine (Light GBM) is an open-source and distributed gradient boosting framework that was developed by Microsoft Corporation. Light GBM is a fast, distributed, high-performance gradient boosting framework that uses a tree-based learning algorithm. 
   It also supports GPU learning and is thus widely used for data science application development.Light GBM splits the tree leaf-wise with the best fit whereas other boosting algorithms split the tree depth-wise or level-wise rather than leaf-wise. 
   In other words, Light GBM grows trees vertically while other algorithms grow trees horizontally.

12. OpenNN
   OpenNN is a free and open-source library of C++,  for implementing neural networks and creating, training models for deep learning, and finding patterns to take decisions. 
   It is much more efficient in faster memory allocation and execution as well. This Deep learning tool provides a wide range of functionalities to support different types of neural networks like feedforward neural networks and radial basis function networks. 
   This kind of diversity allows users to cover a wide range of Machine learning tasks, such as classification, regression, and time series predictions.

CONCLUSION - In conclusion, while Theano's role was foundational, TensorFlow's ongoing innovation and support make it the go-to library for modern deep learning applications.






